More flexible `signed_headers` approach (#60)
ietf-wg-wimse/draft-ietf-wimse-s2s-protocol: draft-ietf-wimse-s2s-protocol.md

    * `exp`: The expiration time of the WIT (as defined in {{Section 4.1.4 of RFC7519}}). WPT lifetimes MUST be short,
     e.g., on the order of minutes or seconds.
    * `jti`: A unique identifier for the token.

Optionally, the `Workload Proof Token` (WPT) may include the following, additional claims, that restrict the context further:
    * `ath`: Hash of the OAuth access token, if present in the request, which might convey end-user identity and
     authorization context of the request. The value, as per {{Section 4.1 of RFC9449}},
     is the base64url encoding of the SHA-256 hash of the ASCII encoding of the access token's value.
    * `signed_headers`: A key-value map of headers where

>          * key: The name of the header field. In HTTP this can be generic, request or entity fields. This may differ in other protocols.

Author: My thinking here is, that not restricting it to HTTP allows `WPT` to be used for example with `Kafka` or `gRPC headers`.

Reviewer: Yes and no. The normative text should be focused on HTTP. If we add a note about a future non-HTTP variant of this protocol, it should be very clear that it's outside the normative "flow".

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure I know what exactly "generic, request or entity fields" means exactly in HTTP but I'm pretty sure it's not what should be here (especially entity).

Reviewer 3: I'm in agreement that we want to focus the POP mechanism on HTTP. Trying to anticipate some other protocol or constraints at this point is difficult. We will need to define the POP for other protocols in other documents.  I think there is value in having the POP be flexible.  I think that is an argument in favor of HTTPSigs.  
Just to mention here It would be great if we keep WIT as not tightly bound to HTTP as it is now.

* Optionally, check that the value of the `jti` claim has not been used before in the time window in which the
 respective WPT would be considered valid.
* If presented in conjunction with an OAuth access token, the value of the `ath` claim matches the hash of that token's value.

> * If `Workload-Proof-Token` contains `signed_headers` claim:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If Workload-Proof-Token contains a `signed_headers` claim:
```

   * The request contains a header for each claim in the `signed_headers`.
   * Each corresponding value in the claim matches the hash of the value in the header.

>    * Headers not present in the `Workload-Proof-Token` are accepted without further proof.

Reviewer: Huh? An attacker can add a header with the same name as an existing header and (depending on implementation) get it accepted.

I suggest to remove this bullet and change the first one to:
> The request contains exactly one header for each claim in `signed_headers` and no additional headers.

Reviewer 2: I must admit to being pretty confused at this stage.

>    * If a header is present more than once in the request, each value has a corresponding hash in the `Workload-Proof-Token`. Proof of just a single value in a multi-value header are not allowed.

Reviewer: I believe (but don't consider myself an HTTP expert) that if a header is repeated multiple times, this is equivalent to concatenating the values together. Oh, here's the text from RFC 9421 again (@bc-pi will love it, I'm sure):

> Unless overridden by additional parameters and rules, HTTP field values MUST be combined into a single value as defined in [Section 5.2](https://rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110#section-5.2) of [[HTTP](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9421.html#RFC9110)] to create the component value. Specifically, HTTP fields sent as multiple fields MUST be combined by concatenating the values using a single comma and a single space as a separator ("," + " "). Note that intermediaries are allowed to combine values of HTTP fields with any amount of whitespace between the commas, and if this behavior is not accounted for by the verifier, the signature can fail, since the signer and verifier will see a different component value in their respective signature bases. For robustness, it is RECOMMENDED that signed messages include only a single instance of any field covered under the signature, particularly with the value for any list-based fields serialized using the algorithm below. This approach increases the chances of the field value remaining untouched through intermediaries. Where that approach is not possible and multiple instances of a field need to be sent separately, it is RECOMMENDED that signers and verifiers process any list-based fields taking all individual field values and combining them based on the strict algorithm below, to counter possible intermediary behavior.

Reviewer 2: This solution, which shouldn't attempt to be a generic signature thing, should probably constrain itself to single value things.

### `ath` claim vs `Authorization` key in `signed_header` claim

Because access tokens are transmitted via the `Authorization` header it is possible to transport proof via `ath` claim, as an `Authorization` key in the `signed_headers` claim or both. The authors believe that supporting `ath` improves interoperability, as it has been defined for similar reasons before by {{Section 4.1 of RFC9449}}. If both are present, both MUST be validated.

> It is important to keep in mind hat the processing rules between `ath` and `signed_headers` differs. `ath` would only compare the hashes of the actual token whilst the `Authorization` value in the `signed_headers` claim would compare the entire header value, including for example, a `Bearer ` prefix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is important to keep in mind that the processing rules between `ath` and `signed_headers` differ. `ath` would only compare the hashes of the actual token whilst the `Authorization` value in the `signed_headers` claim would compare the entire header value, including for example, a `Bearer ` prefix.
```
